---
title: "What are we doing?"
last_modified_at: 
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - personal progress
  - rant
---

I find it funny, that even while creating this post I'm referencing other people's code. Specifically other static blog sites that are hosted using [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/). But isn't that really all that we're doing in the technology/computer industry these days? Gone are the day's of *original* ideas or individual discoveries, all thanks to the rapid expansion of the [~~series of tubes~~](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f99PcP0aFNE) Internet that we know and love. For some, that can put little value on one's potential and rendering them trapped in a never ending self doubt spiral. Personally I have experienced that, even with this as I type now I feel the same and second guess everything I'm even doing. 

Humans are innovators by nature, constantly looking at and for improvements in everything. We strive for the understanding of the world around us from the day we're thrust into the evolving human condition. The human brain needs to comprehend and make sense of the vast amount of information that is around us at any given time. It's from that overall ability to extract usable information or knowledge that provides the very basis of our own personal universe of understanding. We've been observing, processing, testing, and coming to conclusions for ourselves from our first breath. No two humans have had the exact same experiences, and therefore no two humans can be considered exactly the same. Yet it is that very differentiation of our universal existence that makes **our** personal experiences something that can and should always be considered personally *original*. 

Now you're probably wondering how this even pertains to anything technology or computer related. Everything that is now something, had to come from an idea, an *original* idea. The analogy of when humans discovered fire to how we currently have astronauts in space is no easy stretch of the imagination. Yet at the very core of either of those two there exists someone having an idea that evolved into something far greater then imaginable. Present day you can get on the Internet and search for just about anything you could ever come up with at any one time. Yet all around us we're trying to do and show our *original* self or ideas. This can force ones mental line in the sand to be drawn at the conclusions of "someone else already did it". In some cases this is true, but one thing that isn't true is *you* weren't the one to do it. In this infinitely expanding universe there is a place and time where you *did* create something or have an original idea. In Github there's a term of [forking](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/) where you can take an exact copy of someones project or code and make that copy your own. There is one phrase that comes to mind whenever I have forked a Github [Repository](https://docs.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-repositories), "I can make that better".

It's that very phrase to which I continue to further do things that someone already has done. Sure most of this entire blog site was build on a framework from someone else, but so is a house. And last time I checked we're all okay with the idea of someone *else* building the house, just as long as we can have our **own** individual touches to it. So no matter what, if someone's already done something, from coding to writing don't let that stop you. Embrace the challenge of improving and adding your own **originality**. Because in the end, it may not be yours but anything you add to it **is**. 